Hey guys welcome back.
So in our last lecture we asked the question do you need video.
Video has advantages and it has disadvantages to it no doubt.
But in my opinion it's worth generally checking it out.
Obviously I'm here talking to you about the benefits of video in a video so I might be biased.
Really you just need to think about whether or not it's suited for your audience and what you're doing.
Are you using video to enhance your content and does it work.
Or are you just using video because video.
Now I'm talking to you right now and what you would call a tutorial.
But that's one type of video and this lecture run to cover more of the common types of videos you see
in video and content marketing.
Now I should give you some ideas for types of videos you might want to create yourself.
So first of all if you're going to talk about videos and marketing we have to mention at video advertisements
are basically commercials usually created to promote something most likely to try and sell something.
So we've all seen answer products or movies or online services.
Right.
They're pretty much everywhere.
Well here's another wrinkle.
Usually people see ads in voluntarily as in they don't choose to watch it they don't want to watch ads.
They want to watch what comes on after a hard and sometimes now before the act.
Now the ad might show up as pre-roll which means it will play before the video you've actually clicked
on and then it might play as post roll because of the very end of the video really.
Oh.
Is there something else I need to watch.
Like it's just an ad so you might sit through today like a pre-roll ad before you get to watch that
cat video that you originally came to YouTube for or on the ESPN Web site for you get to watch the highlights
from the ballgame you're trying to watch now.
Ads are promotional and really they're just kind of an extension of running ads in general just a way
of spicing up how you get your information out there.
And also it opens up more opportunities to get your information to your audience.
You know you put an ad on Google search results but the only reason so many people and so many frames
of mind if you wanted to get on YouTube or get on ESPN dot com or something else like that well then
you're going to have to use video now since ads are usually involuntary.
That's why they need to be short.
They're usually 30 to 60 seconds long.
Now it's about all people can really handle of an involuntary ad unless it's really really good online.
Now ads might be as short as 15 seconds because that's a lot easier to click away from the video than
get up from your couch and leave the television.
I mean who really wants to watch ads right.
Well think about ads is that they can be really effective when they follow a common type of model.
Now we might have covered this earlier in the course.
Not entirely sure but it's something that marketers follow and it's very very well known it's called
the item model and it's a idea a it's an acronym that stands for attention interest desire and action.
Now it's basically the four things you're trying to get from the viewer when you create an ad.
So is this something people will use and they write like sales e-mails or even just landing pages.
And if you follow this model generally speaking you get good results it's considered a best practice.
So here's generally how it works and as an example we've got this Nintendo switch 30 second commercial
to help us demonstrate the ITA model.
All right so let's watch the video and I'll see you in a second.
This is a
legend of zelda.
Why switch switching play Nintendo switch rated every 110 and now attention means you have to catch
the viewers in the first few seconds.
It might be an interesting looking visual or a bold word or phrase on the screen or it could be a question
that gets people thinking.
So in our ad Nintendo flashes their switch logo at the beginning.
Who what is that they're trying to get your attention.
Now the next part of Ida is interest which means making them aware of the product or service they're
promoting.
What are you advertising here.
Follow up the beginning of the video where you got the viewers attention by connecting this all to the
need the viewer has and then promise more value to come.
So in the ad we launched some gamer wake up and play on a device around his apartment.
Looks like he is like Zelda so that's cool.
Is this the switch.
You know what I am interested.
Tell me more now.
The D in ited needs desire and desire means you have to make them want the product.
Now you mind the re are generally of their need by stating their solution your product your service
whatever it is that's enticing to begin with.
Now this is where you show the real value in store for the viewer.
So back to our AD What did they do to entice you to actually want to be purchases.
Well we launched the game replugged device into something and now the game is on the TV.
Wow that's actually kind of new now maybe I'm actually interested that something novel.
The last thing is action and action just means telling them how to get it without action.
You just got their attention you arouse them and then you did nothing.
In this case it's like visit this website.
Call this number go to the store tell them exactly where to find the product so it can be theirs.
Presumably today you know Nintendo flashes the release date and you are up on the screen at the very
end.
Perfect.
Now I know when this thing is available maybe I can preorder it at this Web site.
So it's a good example of the item model and in general we think about ads and especially video marketing
ads.
We kind of have to stick to that.
You need to hit every single part of that get their attention get them interested hook them and convince
them that they want whatever it is that you're selling them.
And then finally tell them how to relieve that stress and then buy it.
Now of course ads work best when the show to the right audience the people who would actually want the
product you're promoting and would be willing to buy it some day if you can get your hands in front
of the right audience.
There is a better chance we'll take that action at the end of your AD.
So those are ads just one type of video marketing do you yourself run ads.
OK.
Well could you enhance them with video if you can handsom with video and you legitimately think video
can do a better job than your stale text ads or sales pages or whatever then this is actually a good
opportunity for you now another type of video you might use to help create awareness of your product
or brand is what we call the explainer video.
Now explainer videos I'm sure you've seen them there's a bit Jilian of them out there but they're created
to answer questions.
Usually in some variety of like how to do something or this is what this product does.
And and now in fact a lot of companies feature an explainer video right on their home page to explain
themselves who they are what they do and why people should actually care to use usually are going to
run two or three minutes of there's enough detail to make it interesting but not really so long that
you might get bored.
Now what's interesting is that you can use an item model we just talked about before in your explainer
video.
So if the goal of your two explainer is to explain you know your productivity app for example the item
model works here too as well because Lycan and you're trying to get the audience to take a specific
action.
Now brands might also create more explainer videos if their goal is to share expertise and get themselves
known as a helpful source of information.
A lot of startups for instance offer online services will create explainer videos because they can explain
multiple concepts quickly while at the same time showing off their platform in one sense explain how
videos are kind of like a short blog post.
You might write but you know in the video form.
Actually there are some blog posts that write the post and produce it as a video as well as a company
we reference a lot and reference a lot of the section called wisdom and wisdom does this a lot we see
is a video hosting an analytics company.
They're decently well-known in the industry.
They're probably best known for the level of analytics they can give you on your video plays.
Well you know since their services all deal with video then it makes sense that they've created a library
full of high quality videos explaining all of these related topics.
I really like explainer videos because they're a happy medium.
You know they're not too long in the not too short and you can focus on one important topic or you can
take it as an opportunity to tackle the whole question of what my product does or who we are.
OK so those are explainer video as you see them all the time.
They started off as kind of those fake whiteboard videos and then they became this kind of cheap cartoon
look where you can explain something really easily and cheaply and it kind of looks really I don't know
nice.
And now there's a lot of software out there that help you do it like Sparkle and like pow tune and whatever
but the category is really expanded.
And now you see live action explainers where people just tackle one topic and clean it from beginning
to end or they say like this is our company and this is our video explaining what our company and product
does.
Now if you're the type that's creating a lot of educational content or you're in situations where people
come to you looking to fix something or they have cumen as well explainer videos could be an interesting
option.
In that type of video is the product demo video.
Now you'll probably guess what this one is but I'll explain it anyway.
This is a video where you show off your product by demonstrating what it can do including its most important
features.
So instead of focusing on one problem like in an explainer video you get to show multiple things your
product can do.
And also people get to see you interacting with it.
The idea here is to build on the information you might have given in an introductory explainer video
and then perhaps go a little bit deeper in what ways does your product handle the multiple problems
the user might face during the day what multiple task can handle.
How does it integrate with other products the customer might use.
In general how does this product make the customer's life easier.
All of those questions are something you'd ask when you're further along in your buying process and
starting to narrow down options.
So a product demo gives an in-depth look at what you might be buying or signing up for.
Now remember how ads might be 30 to 60 seconds long and then explainers are generally a little bit longer.
All product demos are generally a little bit longer than both of those.
How long exactly.
Well it just kind of depends on how complex your product is.
But it would make sense to break up your product demos into like five or 10 minute pieces if you had
multiple reasons that demo it.
Of course if you're a company that makes luggage more backpacks or something and you're making a demo
about your backpack Well I don't think you could talk about it for five minutes less it had a hundred
and one feature so maybe then it might be a little bit shorter.
As an example of that check out the site here in San Francisco till Timbuktu for each video they have
a video of a guy who literally just goes this is the backpack.
Check out the thing you touched it with my hand.
Back to you.
Another an example of those go to Patagonia.
Patagonia has videos on every single page where a guy interacts with the jacket like puts it on says
how warm it is and then it hits you with a bunch of buzzwords like never live.
Pluck duck feathers.
So for productivity videos let's say for example your productivity app and you had a few things you
wanted to demo for people considering it for purchase.
You got a group of really cool features that help everyday users so those could use some explanation.
Then you've got let's say integration options because your app can connect with other apps and automate
some stuff.
So maybe that could use a demo itself and then you know there's the whatever really cool stuff it could
do with like the wearables or the fit bits or the Apple Watches.
So then maybe you have a separate video for that.
Now all of that stuff would be too hard to cover in one video so it might be better to take three separate
ones but they're kind of the same thing.
That way the customers have interest in productivity and they have a specific need like they're big
into automation.
Then they can drill down right to the demo that makes the most sense for them.
So product demos can be pretty cool.
But one way to use video that really demonstrates that something works for the show costumer is to show
how a customer uses it.
So for another type of video we're going to explore for a second.
You might create is called a customer testimonial video.
Now this is where you bring in a customer or you go to their business and get them on video telling
everyone how awesome your stuff is and explaining why.
And then when no one's looking you slip them a check behind the camera for all the explanations you
can give how great your product is some customers out there would rather hear it from someone that's
actually use it.
Now that's why testimonial videos really can be quite powerful.
Testimonials don't even have to be that long maybe three to five minutes but it can depend on how complex
the product is actually.
And if you can get a lot of good information from the customer.
So if you were to identify one of your early customers or one that's been willing to talk to you about
their experience you could approach them to tell their story on video.
It basically works like any other written case study.
If you have a read or written one before well you know you have the customer introduce themselves then
they explain the original problem they're facing.
Why were they were looking for a solution.
How this interaction what they do then they can tell you what other alternatives maybe they considered
or tried before landing on your amazing product slash service.
Then they can kind of go into how easy it is to use or how to improve their lives in some measurable
way by letting customers tell their story it adds these elements of trust and reliability or product.
Again it means a lot for these positive things to be coming from people outside your business so if
a customer has a good story to tell and you can get them on video that's something you could possibly
do.
Now generally speaking video testimonials are just better.
How many times have you read a page you read or written testimonial or a quote and then compare that
to whatever you've read a page and it had a video testimonial video testimonial you know might be a
little cheesy.
You're more likely to believe that person who's telling that story versus some quote from someone you've
never heard of.
I can put up fake quotes all the time.
I could quote anyone and just put it up there.
You don't know for a fact they said that.
Now videos like customer testimonials and product demos can help a lot with people narrowing down their
choices and looking for evidence to help them make that decision.
Now another type of video that could help is what we call a walk through video.
Now a product demo video is what introduces key features but the walk through video then takes you through
each feature and explains them step by step.
Walk Through these are especially helpful when you have a product with complex functionality or a platform
with multiple steps.
You might have to go through to get things done.
Generally speaking explainer videos are going to be displayed before someone buys something and they're
kind of a quick overview go cruising speed over all the cool things you can do then a walkthrough is
generally after they've bought it.
Hey here's how you actually use the product and get the most out of it.
So think of a product like Google Analytics right here we're going to Google Analytics you know it can
be pretty overwhelming from the get go.
But if Google produce an instructional walkthrough video like getting started with Google Analytics
I don't actually know if they have a video like this.
More people might be willing to jump in.
Now I found one Google did on their small business YouTube channel from year a couple of years ago.
But you know I get why they don't produce walkthrough is more often the google analytics platform is
really detailed and it would take a lot of walk through videos to cover it all.
Plus features might change in there or the layouts will change or the buttons and such are.
So you'd have to redo the videos constantly in order for them to be accurate and that there can be a
major hassle and somebody to take into consideration of these videos.
So in that sense they can be a pain.
Generally speaking from the company's perspective you might consider walking through videos if you need
to increase engagement in your product or get people to sign up more for something or try a new feature.
It's usually stuff like that to raise their satisfaction raise their engagement.
And that oftentimes is tied to your bottom line.
Usually what ends up happening though is you let those walk through is be available to anyone.
So someone who doesn't have the product might still see the walkthrough and that might still be convincing
for them to actually buy it.
Now Imus explained something about the four types that we've kind of covered so far.
We have the ads the explainers product and walk through videos and the first two.
Generally speaking you're going to have higher production value right because it's customer facing.
It's convincing people to buy.
It's giving a new impression to someone who's never heard of your company and is trying to kind of shape
the way they feel about you.
There's also usually a lot of money kind of on the line right if you're going to do a $100000 ad campaign
while in video ad makes it more successful than it's definitely worth it.
And an explainer you put it on your home page.
Well that could dramatically increase your conversions.
Now with walk through those and product demos those can range in production value specially and walk
through videos walk through videos are often just screencast where you just hear a voice and a screen.
Now sometimes they'll actually show a person talking or they'll cut between someone talking and they
go back to a screencast but that's actually less common.
That's something to keep in mind if you don't have a lot of money or time to do a big production right
now.
Maybe you focus on the easier things like walk through or doing very basic product demos.
Now the first three videos are focused on people who have not bought from you yet trying to convince
them to do it and then walk through is generally speaking focused on the it.
Now how do they get to use it.
Well here's another one that's going to fit into that second camp and those are fake videos now.
And I think he used to answer frequently asked questions and a lot of times will companies will do is
make a few videos where they read off a question that comes from a customer and then make a video explaining
it.
These videos do not explain their entire product as a whole nor does it really jump into company culture
or how they got started or the coolest features of the product.
Generally speaking they just answer a question.
Now these are great if you get the same questions over and over and over again it can really kind of
put them to bed and give someone a link to this every single time they ask you.
But also it does help with brand where people really like it when they see video explanations of questions
they might run into Here's a random example lumber liquidators they sell hardwood flooring and while
they also install it for you some customers just want to do it themselves.
Fair enough.
Destroy your knees.
They don't really care.
Well actually lumber liquidators does care well enough to produce a flooring one to one series of videos
and one of them is called How to install laminate flooring.
Now don't ask me to explain what the tap in joint method is but at the end of this 11 and a half minute
video I probably could give you a decent shot and explanation.
The point is if you're considering putting on a laminate flooring and you found Lumber Liquidators that
might be a question you might have and you might be on the edge.
While this helps you kind of get over the edge it can help people feel better about the decision they're
about to make or have already made.
And that's a key benefit of a video produced for the bottom end of your marketing funnel.
As in the people at the very end of the process who have early bought it need to share or reengage or
are really close to doing it.
OK so there you go.
We've gone over 6 different kinds of video each with a different focus and each with a different run
time as we move forward in the video marketing section.
Keep these videotapes in mind.
Now you should be able to think up ideas for yourself and then help customers from the time they're
just learning about you to the time when they become a IMR and beyond as you were listening Nurk down
if any of these make sense for you and your business.
A lot of them are easy to do.
And some of them are a little bit harder.
So with that being said I'll see you guys in the next hour.